.TH clog 1 YYYY-MM-DD "clog 0.9.0" "User Manuals"

.SH NAME
clog \- A colorizing log filter

.SH SYNOPSIS
.B clog [--help] [--version] [ <section> ... ]

.SH DESCRIPTION
Clog is a filter, which means it copies its input to its output.  But if the
lines of input match certain patterns, actions are taken.

The patterns are defined in ~/.clogrc as regular expressions, and the actions
are specified, to colorize the line, the matching pattern, perhaps to suppress
the line, or prepend a timestamp.

One or more section arguments may be specified.  If none are provided, 'default'
is assumed.  A section corresponds to a rule set defined in ~/.clogrc. and
allows the use of one .clogrc file to serve multiple different uses of clog.
If more than one section is specified, the rules sets are combined, in the
sequence found.

.SH CONFIGURATION FILE AND OVERRIDE OPTIONS
Clog reads its configutation from a file in the user's home directory:
~/.clogrc.

The format of the rules is:

.RS
<section> rule /<pattern>/ --> <color> <action>
.RE

The section is simply a way to allow multiple rules sets, so that one .clogrc
file can serve multiple uses.  The pattern is any supported Standard C Library
regular expression.  Action must be one of 'line', 'match' or 'suppress'.

Note that there is a default section, called 'default'.  Putting rules in the
default section means that no section need be specified on the command line.

Any color can be used, in both the 16- and 256-color space.  Some examples are:

.RS
bold
.br
underline
.br
bold blue
.br
underline on green
.br
black on white
.br
bold red on bright white
.br
rgb200 on grey4
.RE

Instead of coloring the whole line, specifying 'match' instead will only color
the parts of the line that match.

.SH EXAMPLE Rulesets
Here is an example ~/.clogrc file.

.RS
# Standard syslog entries.
.br
default rule /warn|debug/   --> yellow line
.br
default rule /error|severe/ --> red line
.br
default rule /critical/     --> bold red line
.br
default rule /ignore/       --> suppress
.br

.br
# Apache access.log status codes
.br
apache rule / 2[0-9][0-9] / --> green match
.br
apache rule / 3[0-9][0-9] / --> yellow match
.br
apache rule / 4[0-9][0-9] / --> red match
.br
apache rule / 5[0-9][0-9] / --> bold red match
.RE

.SH "CREDITS & COPYRIGHTS"
Taskwarrior was written by P. Beckingham <paul@yootabory.org> and
F. Hernandez <fredde@yootabory.org>.
.br
Copyright (C) 2011 Göteborg Bit Factory.

clog is distributed under the GNU General Public License.  See
http://www.gnu.org/licenses/gpl-2.0.txt for more information.

.SH SEE ALSO

For more information, see:

.TP
The official site at
<http://yootabory.org>

.TP
You can contact the project by writing an email to
<support@yootabory.org>

.SH REPORTING BUGS
.TP
Bugs in clog may be reported to <support@yootabory.org>

